SAPIENS
Harari's work places human history within a framework, with the natural sciences setting limits for human activity and social 
sciences shaping what happens within those bounds. The academic discipline of history is the account of cultural change.

Harari surveys the history of humankind from the Stone Age up to the 21st century, focusing on Homo sapiens. He divides the 
history of Sapiens into four major parts:[3]

The Cognitive Revolution (c. 70,000 BCE, the start of behavioral modernity when imagination evolved in Sapiens).
The (first) Agricultural Revolution (c. 10,000 BCE, the development of agriculture).
The Unification of Humankind (c. 34 CE, the gradual consolidation of human political organizations towards globalization).
The Scientific Revolution (c. 1543 CE, the emergence of objective science).
Harari's main argument is that Sapiens came to dominate the world because they are the only animal that can cooperate flexibly in 
large numbers. He argues that prehistoric Sapiens were a key cause of the extinction of other human species such as the Neanderthals 
and numerous other megafauna. He further argues that the ability of Sapiens to cooperate in large numbers arises from its unique capacity 
to believe in things existing purely in the imagination, such as gods, nations, money and human rights. He argues that these beliefs 
give rise to discrimination – whether racial, sexual or political – and it is potentially impossible to have a completely unbiased 
society. Harari claims that all large-scale human cooperation systems – including religions, political structures, trade networks and 
legal institutions – owe their emergence to Sapiens' distinctive cognitive capacity for fiction.[4] Accordingly, Harari describes money 
as a system of mutual trust and political and economic systems as similar to religions.


JONATHANN LIVINGSTON SEAGULL
Jonathan Livingston Seagull is an independent thinker frustrated with the daily squabbles over meager food and sheer survival within 
his flock of seagulls who have no deeper sense of purpose. Unlike his peers, he is seized with a passion for flight of all kinds, and 
his soul soars as he aerially experiments and learns more about the nature of his own body and the environment in achieving faster 
and faster flights. Eventually, his lack of conformity within the Flock causes them to officially banish him with the label "Outcast". 
Undeterred, Jonathan continues his efforts to reach ever-greater flight goals, finding that he is often successful. He lives a long 
happy life and is sad not due to his loneliness but only due to the fact that the rest of the Flock will never know the full glories
of flying, like him. In his old age, he is met by two radiantly-bright seagulls who share his abilities, explaining to him that he 
has learned much, but that they have come to take him "home" where he will go "higher".


MASTERY
Examining the habits and behavioral attributes of accomplished artists, scientists, and other remarkable human beings, Robert 
Green's Mastery highlights the innate potential within us all. There is a proven path to success, achieved by mastering the essential 
skills in any given profession. The key to mastery of any field can be attained by following his three arduous steps. Be passionate, 
find a mentor, then network. Mustering the motivation to fully commit to the process is the most difficult step of the journey, but 
the results are unparalleled.


